# 30/07/2025 Week 1

Welcome to my learning log!
If you are a prospective future employer, I hope you hire me, thanks in advance.

I am starting this learning log because after around 2 years working as an Infrastructure Engineer within a second line support team, I have decided I want to expand my knowledge and skills around IT in my own time.

I really enjoy the technical aspects of my job, and I've gotten pretty comfy working within a terminal. I've been using a mac for my day to day work, but I reckon I can really get to grips with learning IT, especially infrastructure, with Linux. So I've bought myself a wee Mini PC to learn on. It currently lives in my living room, so I can work on it after spending all day in my home office and not feel like it's more work.

The world is my oyster currently; the slate is blank; the single step to begin the proverbial thousand mile journey is yet to be taken. Whatever I decide to take on, the goal is to try and publish a weekly learning log. Just a summary of what I've achieved this week, what I learned along the way, what blockers I had, and what I did to resolve them.

This first entry will just be a rough outline of where I've got to so far. I've had this machine for a few weeks now, but I've not managed much other than installing the OS and setting a few things up.

## What I've Achieved

- Installed Arch Linux manually, following the Arch Wiki and a video tutorial. Process took a couple of hours, no major blockers
- Got started using KDE Plasma. The intention was to get into a proper Hyprland rice, but after leaving it a couple of weeks while on holiday, the desire to do this has faded, being replaced by the desire to just get into some real projects. May revisit Hyprland again in a while.
- Installed a few basic/essential programs - Firefox, VS Code, Dolphin File Manager. Still getting used to Pacman, as my previous experience with linux was on Ubunto during my Sparta Academy DevOps bootcamp, which obviously used apt.
- Created the first github repo to store my learning log and possibly some projects, although I may just make new repos for my projects individually.
- Created ssh keys to link my local machine to github.

## Blockers

### Had trouble setting up the git repo.
When attempting to push my local repo to the remote for the first time, received error:
```
error: src refspec main does not match any
error: failed to push some refs to 'github.com:FPM-Spartan/infinity_projects.git'
```
This was caused by not having any files added or committed. Created hello.txt and added and commited, then managed to push to main.

### SSH

I'd never seen the new type of ssh before, at work I had always used id-rsa but it looks like id_ed25519 is the ssh that github wants now.

## What's Next?

- Dive into more linux infrastructure.
- First project is going to be a system monitoring tool. I will start researching this.
- Tinker around some more with customising my environment. Not going over to Hyprland yet, but will get the place looking nice.

